1. What is Git?
2. What is DVCS?
3. Adv of using VCS?
4. Diff between Git and SVN?
5. Diff between Git and Github?
6. Language used in Git? --> C
7. Git repo hosting functions?
Github, Gitlab, Bitbucket, SourceForge and GitEnterprise
8. What is a repository in Git?
9. Bare Repository in Git?
No working files. no .git subdirectory. 
10. What is a commit message?
11. Some Basic Git commands
12. fix a Broken commit
git commit --commit
13. Conflict in Git?
14. How to resolve conflict in Git
identify the file 
make the changes
git add, git commit
15. revert a commit that has already pushed and made public?
1. remove and fix the bad file and push the file again
2. new commit that undoes the previous commits
(git revert commitid)
16. what is subgit?
tool for svn to Git migration.
17. Diff between Git pull and fetch?
18. what is staging area or index?
19. what is use of git instaweb?
automatically direct a web browser and run a webserver with an interface into your local repo.

Intermediate:
1. Git is-tree?
represents a tree object including the mode and the name of each item and the SHA-1 value of the tree.
2. Git Stash?
takes the working directory, your modified tracked files and staged changes and saves it on a stack of unfinished changes that you can reapply at any time.
3. Git stash Apply?
bring back hte saved changes tothe current working dir.
4. what work is restored when the deleted branch is recovered?
the files were stashed and saved in the stash index list will be recovered back. Any untracked files will be lost.
5. Diff between git status and git diff
6. Diff between git clone and git remote
7. Git stash Drop?
remove the last added stash item by def, 
8. List of files that changed during a commit?
git diff-tree -r{hash}
git diff-tree --no-commitid --name-only -r{hash}
9. Git config?
change git configuration including username and email
10. what does commit object contain?
a set of files
ref to parent commit objects
an SHA1 name
11. Describe branching stratergies that is used:
Feature
Task
Release
12. Advantages of forking of workflow
adv -> contributions. 
own public repo and not common repo.
13. how to check whether a branch has already been merged into the master?
git branch --merged
git branch --no-merged
14. additional commit rather than amending an existing commit?
amend opn destroys the state that was previously saved in a commit
Growth of a small commit and acquire unrelated changes
15. hook comprise in Git?
This directory consists of shell scripts that are activated if you run the corresponding Git commands
16. How to return a commit that has just been pushed?
One or more commits can be reverted through the use of git revert
Alternatively, there is always an option to check out the state of a particular commit from the past and commit it anew.
17. How to remove a file from Git without removing it from your file system?
git reset filename
echo filename >>.gitignore
18. Git workflow?
to record the history of the project, Gitflow workflow employs two parallel long running branches, master and develop
19. Difference between head, working tree and index?
working tree-> source files
index-> single large binary file
head -> last commit in the currently checked out branch
20. Diff between fork, branch and clone
21. Different ways by which we can refer to a commit?
refs
relative to one another
merge commits-> 
22. Diff between rebase and merge
rebase -> rewrites commit history
merge -> integrate into single branch
23. Diff between revert and reset?

Advanced 
1. How to squash last N commits into a single commit?
git reset -soft HEAD~N &&
git commit
git reset -soft HEAD~N &&
git commit -edit -m "$(git log -format=%B -reverse .HEAD@{N})"

2. Git bisect? how to use that to determine the source of a bug?
git bisect <subcommand> <options>
which commit in the history introduced a bug.
uses binary search to identify the commit which caused bug

3. Integrate git with jenkins
Manage Jenkins
Manage plugins
Search for Git plugin
Github Branch source plugin

4. How to configure a repo to run code sanity checking tools right before making commits?
Sanity or smoke test determines whether it is possible and reasonable to continue testing

5. Git cherry-pick?
introduce a particular commit from one branch within a repo onto a diff branch
used to foward or back port commits from a maintenance branch to a dev branch
git cherry-pick commit id

6. Git reflog?
keeps a track of every single change made in the reference of a repo. 
git reflog

7. how to recover a deleted branch using git reflog?
History logs of all reference
git reflog

Identify the timestamp
git checkout -b Branchname HEAD@{4}

8. git reflog sub commands?
git reflog --help
git reflog show
git reflog expire
git reflog delete
git reflog exists?
 